Ways to Hold Title

In California

 

Parties

Division

Tenancy in Common

Any number of persons
(including married or

registered domestic partners).

Ownership can be divided

Joint Tenancy

Any number of persons
(including married or
registered domestic partners).

Owner interests

Community Property

Only married couples or
registered domestic
partners have community
property rights.

Community Property
with Right of Survivorship

Only married couples or
registered domestic partners.

Ownership and managerial

Title

Possession

into any number of interests;
equal or unequal.

Each co-owner has a
separate legal title to his or
her undivided interest.

Equal rights of possession.

must be equal.

Co-owners must acquire
interest at the same time and
from the same person (may be
created by deed from a sole
owner to self and to others).

interests are equal.

Title is in the “community.”
Each interest is separate but
management is unified.

Ownership and managerial
interests are equal.

Title is in the “community.”
Each interest is separate

but management is unified.
Title must expressly state
community property with right
of survivorship.

Both co-owners have equal

Conveyance

Each co-owner’s interest may

Equal rights of possession.

rights of possession.

Both co-owners have equal
rights of possession.

Conveyance by one co-owner

Death

Successor’s
Status

Presumption

be conveyed separately by its
individual owner.

Upon co-owner’s death, his
or her interest passes to that
person's devisees or heirs. No
survivorship right.

Devisees or heirs become
tenants in common.

Only married couples or
registered domestic partners.

without the others will sever
(terminate) the individual’s
joint tenancy.

Upon co-owner’s death, his or
her interest ends and cannot
be disposed of by will. Joint
tenant survivor(s) own(s) the
property. An affidavit may
establish fact of death.

Last survivor owns
property 100%.

Must be expressly stated
in the deed.

The information concerning ownership vesting is for informational purposes only.
Contact an attorney or CPA if you desire advice regarding a specific manner of holding title to property.

This flyer lists ways for two or more individuals to hold title together.

Please contact me for more information.

 

South Bay West
Brandon Orosz

669.437.4050 main

© 202] Stewart. All rights reserved. | 705142683
Trademarks are the property of their respective owners.

Stewart Title of California, Inc.

Business Development Officer
Morgan Hill, CA 950377
408.921.4374 direct

brandon.orosz@stewart.com
www.stewart.com/santa-clara-county

Conveyance requires both
parties’ signatures.

Upon death of spouse or
registered domestic partner,
50% belongs to surviving
spouse or registered domestic
partner, 50% may go to
surviving Spouse or registered
domestic partner or may be
disposed of by decedent’s will.

If passing by will, tenancy in
common between devisees
and survivor results.

The legal presumption is the
property which has been
acquired during the course
of the marriage or registered
domestic partnership is
community property.

Conveyance requires both
parties’ signatures.

Upon death of one spouse or
registered domestic partner,
his or her interest ends and
cannot be disposed of by will.
Survivor owns the property
100%. An affidavit may
establish fact of death.

Last survivor owns
property 100%.

Must expressly state
community property with
right of survivorship.

Mi stewart

TITLE ————
